## Performance Testing

Performance testing checks the system is behaving and performing as it should. Software performance testing examines the responsiveness, stability, scalability, reliability, speed, and resource usage of the software and infrastructure. Different types of performance tests provide you with different data.

### Stress Testing

Stress testing pushes an application beyond its normal load conditions to determine which components fail first. Stress testing attempts to find the breaking point of the application and is used to evaluate the robustness of the application's data processing capabilities and response to high volumes of traffic.

### Spike Testing

Spike testing evaluates the ability of the application to handle sudden increases in user volume. It is done by suddenly increasing the load generated by a very large number of users with the goal to determine whether performance will suffer, the system will fail, or it will be able to handle the dramatic change. This testing is critical for applications that experience large increases in users.

### Load Testing

Load testing evaluates the application's performance under increasingly high numbers of users. Load or increasing numbers of users are applied to the application and the results are measured to validate the requirements are met. This load can be the expected concurrent number of users on the application performing a specific task within a set duration. This test will give out the response times for all important tasks.

### Endurance Testing

Endurance testing evaluates the performance of the system under load over time. It is executed by applying varying loads to the application under test for an extended period of time to validate that the performance requirements related to production loads and durations of those loads are met. Endurance testing can be considered a component of load testing and is also known as Soak testing.

### Volume Testing

Volume testing, also known as Flood testing evaluates the application's ability to handle large volumes of data. The impact on response time and the behaviour of the application are analysed. This testing can be used to identify bottlenecks and to determine the capacity of the system. This type of performance testing is important for applications that deal with big data.

### Scalability Testing

Scalability testing is used to determine an application's ability to handle increasing amounts of load and processing. It involves measuring attributes including response time, throughput, hits and requests per second, transaction processing speed, CPU usage, Network usage and more. Results of this testing can be used in the planning and design phases of development which reduces costs and mitigates the potential for performance issues.